In this video, we'll address the effects of deceptive patterns, and how you, as a UX designer, can avoid using them in your work. Everyone's affected by deceptive patterns. Consumers today are more aware than ever of the tricks that businesses and advertisers use to get them to buy products. But consumers are still impacted by the psychological effects of deceptive patterns. Deceptive patterns are harder to ignore than traditional forms of advertising because they're designed to be difficult to identify.
Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34
Imagine you're in a brick-and-mortar clothing store shopping for jeans. A salesperson comes up to you and asks if you need help and you politely send them away. Ten seconds later, the salesperson comes back and asks again, telling you that there are only 4 more pairs of jeans left in your size. Ten seconds after that, they bring you a stack of t-shirts that they think you might want, and 10 seconds after that, they ask if you want to sign up for their store credit card. All of this together would likely annoy or anger you. You'd probably leave the store without buying anything. But imagine the same scenario happening in an online store. This might have even happened to you. You open a clothing store's website and navigate to the jeans department. You find a pair you like and notice a message that there are only 4 left in stock. You don't want to miss out, so you quickly add a pair to your cart. Then a bar on the side of the screen suggests a shirt to go along with those jeans. You imagine that if other people bought this combination of shirt and jeans, it might look good on you too. When you click on the shirt, a pop-up ad offers a 10 percent discount if you provide your email address. What a deal! At the checkout page where you're buying the jeans and t-shirt, and using the 10 percent off coupon, you realize something else has appeared in your cart. It's laundry detergent that's specially formulated for the jeans you're buying. Great. Maybe your jeans won't fade now. What happened in each of these situations? In the brick-and-mortar store, you may send the salesperson away and eventually leave without buying anything. In the online store, you're convinced to buy more than the jeans you initially came for, and your email address has also been captured for that site's future marketing campaigns.
Play video starting at :2:30 and follow transcript2:30
Deceptive patterns are designed to intentionally trick you. With so many deceptive patterns that play, it's easy to miss one. Okay. Let's consider one more scenario. Think about how you react when there's a bright red notification flag on your favorite social media app. Chances are you feel a sense of urgency. The red flag makes a notification feel like something you need to deal with right away. When those notifications pop up on your computer or phone throughout the day, you get a dose of dopamine, which is a natural chemical in the brain that's released when something pleasurable happens. That makes us feel good or intrigued. For example, sometimes a jingle or a short sound accompanies a notification, or the red flag might wave or use motion to grab your attention. The addition of sound and motion further enhances that dopamine effect. But how does it feel on the flip side when you don't get any notifications? Well, this is another physical effect of deceptive patterns. When you don't get any notifications, you can feel anxious. You might even be able to imagine a time when you refreshed your phone or computer waiting for a new notification.
Play video starting at :3:45 and follow transcript3:45
Keep in mind this takeaway. There are many techniques to encourage users to sign up for or purchase your product without tricking them. As UX designers, we need to be aware of methods for attracting users and ensuring that users have a good experience with our product without deceiving them. If you detect deceptive patterns being used in the products you're working on, you should raise that issue with your colleagues quickly. Beating deceptive patterns is a team effort. The first step to fighting them is recognizing them, and you're already gaining the tools you need to do just that.