:03
Hello, my name is Priya and I'm a UX program manager at Google. UX program manager is where cross-functionally with managers, designers, researchers, and engineering, teams to ensure smooth collaboration. A lot of what we do is ensuring effective communication, and managing project schedules and defining milestones. We try to create order out of chaos and really keep teams aligned by managing, risk, roadblocks, priorities, and dependencies. We really want to make sure that UX can focus on their craft and move along product development. I love that my team is able to work across all product areas of the company. It feels really meaningful to be able to touch a lot of different products and people's lives. I loved that, my team really focuses on finding diverse participants. One of the things that's so meaningful to me is to be able to connect with external users to make sure that we're designing equitably and inclusively. When we're able to design for something inclusively, it makes me feel that we achieved part of our goal and trying to make the world's information more accessible. One of the initiatives that I'm very passionate about the company is how we're designing for our next billion users. Those are the people who are just starting to come online right now, and I think a lot about how we really want to make sure regardless of someone's language, their background, where they're located, their digital literacy, but they have a means to reach the internet, and be connected in that we're truly designed and internet for everyone.
Play video starting at :1:26 and follow transcript1:26
Some of the products that we're developing, we try to make sure that there is an equivalent experience for those who are just coming online. For instance, are a lot of our initiatives on Search and YouTube. We've really tried to customize what is that experience for someone who may not be fluent in English, who may have never used a smartphone or use the Internet before. We're trying to design a completely different experience to make sure those people feel comfortable and are able to get the most of the technology and the resources available to them. When designed for users, it's easy to assume what someone's experience might be like, what their understanding is, or their ideas. I find it's useful to take a step back and make sure well-aligned what it is that people really care about. I think it making sure that we're hearing from people directly for me personally, whether it's my UX co-workers or external users of our Google products. I think hearing from them to know what exactly are their journeys allows me to build a lot of empathy and think more holistically and creatively about solutions that'll actually resonate for them.