
Welcome! Are you ready to start putting pen to paper on a regular basis? We'll soon be creating storyboards, wireframes, and low-fidelity prototypes. Let's review where we're at in the UX design process. You learned how to empathize with users and understand their needs. You explored how to define user needs and problem statements, and you started to come up with ideas for design solutions with activities like Crazy Eights and "How Might We's." In this course, you'll continue to ideate and explore solutions in a low effort, low cost way. By the end of this course, we'll end up in the prototype phase. More specifically, by the end of this course, you'll be able to: use research to inform the ideation process, build storyboards and explain how storyboards are used to create wireframes, draw basic elements like shapes and lines, understand information architecture, create paper wireframes, build digital wireframes on a tool called Figma, construct low-fidelity paper prototypes, develop low-fidelity digital prototypes on Figma, and understand how to avoid the effects of deceptive patterns in designs. Keep in mind that throughout this course, you'll continue to build on a project for your portfolio.
Play video starting at :1:34 and follow transcript1:34
My name is Karen, and I'm thrilled to lead you in this next part of your UX design journey. I'm an interaction designer on the Material Design team at Google. At work, one of my focus areas is UX accessibility. Outside of work, I help run a UX community called Hexagon UX, which advocates for underrepresented communities in the UX design industry. I'm also one of those designers who didn't start out in this field. I used to work in marketing and business development, so if you're switching careers, I can relate. To get started, let's discuss how to use research to inform the ideation process. See you there!