Hi again. We're ready to dig into one of the most important parts of the UX design process: empathizing with our users. In this video, we'll learn what empathy is and how it's applied in UX design. We'll also discuss the importance of understanding user needs, behaviors, and motivations. The best thing designers can do to create good user experiences is empathize. Empathy is the ability to understand someone else's feelings or thoughts in a situation.
Play video starting at ::33 and follow transcript0:33
Empathizing with potential users is important to every step of the design thinking process.
Play video starting at ::40 and follow transcript0:40
First, let's explore what we really mean by empathy. Sure, you have a definition.
Play video starting at ::46 and follow transcript0:46
But when you think about empathy in relation to similar words, like pity and sympathy, the meaning can get a little blurry. So let's break it down. When you have pity for someone, you feel sorry for them. But pity usually has condescending overtones. Think about it like this. Pitiful and pathetic are synonyms. When you have sympathy for someone, you acknowledge their feelings, but you keep yourself from experiencing those feelings. Empathy goes beyond sympathy. When you empathize with someone, you share their mental and emotional experiences. Empathy is at the core of everything we do. Approaching UX research with empathy makes it easier for you to solve the right problem. Like anyone else, UX designers make a lot of assumptions, but UX design is not about solving problems we assume users want solved. It's about solving problems that users actually want solved.
Play video starting at :1:47 and follow transcript1:47
When we first meet someone, we may have a lot of assumptions about who they are. As we get to know them though, we may discover that our assumptions were not so accurate. This is true in UX design, too. We might think we know who a user is and what they need, but UX research reveals who they really are and what they actually need, allowing us to better empathize with the user.