Hey, there. Now that you know why you need a portfolio, let's find out how to make one. Coming up, we'll explain how to build a personalized online portfolio, and we'll help you choose the website builder that works best for you. Building a website might seem intimidating, but there are a lot of tools to help you.
Play video starting at ::22 and follow transcript0:22
Most website builders are simple to use and don't require any coding or technical knowledge. Plus, they have a support team on staff to help. Website builders often have tutorials to help you figure out what layout to use, and how to add text, sound, and images. These user-friendly website builders feature WYSIWYG editors. WYSIWYG stands for What You See Is What You Get. In other words, you can type, and make your text bold or add italics as you would in a word processing program like Google Docs and Microsoft Word. All this might seem obvious, but Web-based WYSIWYG editors have only been around for 10 years or so. Before website builders were widely available, you had to create everything in HTML and CSS, which are the coding languages used to build the internet. Fortunately, things are a lot simpler now, so you don't need to know any code to build an impressive portfolio. If you do know how to code, or if you'd like the challenge and flexibility that you get with coding, awesome. You can choose to build a website from scratch, instead of using a website builder. Just be sure to put your UX design work front-and-center, and prioritize the UX of the site. Remember, recruiters and employers want to know about your UX design work, not how good you are at coding.
Play video starting at :1:50 and follow transcript1:50
Now let's check out some common website builders used by UX designers to build portfolios. There are lots of options for website builders. But in this video, we'll focus on three of the most popular: Wix, Squarespace, and Webflow. For this program, you can choose any of the three. They all have benefits and drawbacks. So choose the website builder that works best for you. Don't worry that your portfolio might look similar to your classmates'. There are a variety of templates to choose from on each website builder. You'll personalize your template to convey your unique style, communicate the value you bring to the UX design industry, and showcase your designs.
Play video starting at :2:34 and follow transcript2:34
Now, we'll quickly review each website builder. Then you can use the links in the readings to learn more and decide which website builder you'd like to use. The reading also has step-by-step instructions on how to set up your website. Wix is easy to use, and a favorite with folks in all kinds of creative industries. There are plenty of templates and even some templates specifically for portfolios. Templates mean that you don't have to start from a blank slate, which makes it easy to achieve impressive results in no time. Squarespace is also popular, especially with visual designers. Squarespace is best known for its blog function, but it also has beautiful website themes. There are a bunch of templates to choose from, and it's flexible to allow for personalization. If you're new to website building, it's definitely a great choice. Finally, Webflow is a well-known option among UX designers for its on-trend styles, and layouts, and high level of customization. You do need some knowledge of coding though. So if you'd like to practice your coding skills, Webflow might be a good choice for you. Each of these website builders offer their own add-ons that you can purchase. One option is a domain, or the address of your website. It's better to have your own domain name for personal branding. You'll personalize your template to convey your own unique style, communicate the value you bring to the UX design industry, and showcase your designs.
Play video starting at :4:11 and follow transcript4:11
Okay, now you know why website builders are helpful tools for building your UX design portfolio. Take some time to check out each tool so you fully understand the options available. Then pick the one you want to use based on your needs and your career interests. Next, we'll cover the best practices and essential features of a UX designer's portfolio. See you then.