Hi again! Now that we've defined competitive audits and explored their benefits, we'll discuss a few limitations. Let's start with the biggest limitation first. Competitive audits can stifle creativity. If you spend too much time focusing on what others are doing, you might prevent yourself from creating a truly innovative product. Innovation doesn't happen by copying the competition. The key is to understand what the competition is doing and use that as a starting point to push forward and innovate. Another limitation is that the success of the competitive audit depends on how well you interpret the findings. Analyzing data can be tricky, and it's a skill that you'll develop throughout your career as a designer.
Play video starting at ::46 and follow transcript0:46
Working on a team can be helpful here as you'll have others to interpret the data with. Another thing to keep in mind while doing a competitive audit, is that not all designs work in all use cases. The features that work well for a competitor might not work well for your product, if you serve different users. For example, imagine you're designing a website for a clothing company. A competitor has a feature that shows photos of customers wearing their brand's clothing on social media. But if your audience doesn't regularly use social media, this feature is not a good fit for your clothing website. One last thing to call out: You should do competitive audits on a regular basis, not just once. You want to stay on top of what your competitors are doing and keep an eye out for new competitors that might emerge. All right, now that we've discussed why we do competitive audits and their limitations, coming up we'll share the specific steps to take when conducting a competitive audit. Let's go!