Welcome back. Did you get your detective gear? In this video, we'll explore an important part of the ideation process: competitive audits. A competitive audit is an overview of your competitors' strengths and weaknesses. We know that it's important to come up with lots of ideas before deciding on one solution. A competitive audit is just one tool to explore ideas for designs, so we can learn from others about what has worked and not worked. Let's begin by discussing what you can learn from a competitive audit. This includes: Identifying your key competitors, Reviewing the products that your competitors offer, Understanding how your competitors position themselves in the market, Examining what your competition does well and what they could do better, And considering how your competitors talk about themselves. So, who do you consider to be your competition? To be thorough, you should include both direct and indirect competitors in your audit. Grab your magnifying glass.
Play video starting at :1:2 and follow transcript1:02
Direct competitors have offerings, meaning products, services, or features, that are similar to your product and focus on the same audience. Essentially, you're both trying to solve the same problem. Indirect competitors are a little more nuanced. They either have a similar set of offerings, but focus on a different audience than you, or they have a different set of offerings and focus on the same audience as you. For example, let's say you're creating a weight loss app that focuses on people in their 30s. Your direct competitors are other companies that also make weight loss apps targeted at people in their 30s. Your indirect competitors are any company that makes health or wellness apps targeted at people in their 30s, or make weight loss apps targeted at people in a different age bracket. It's helpful to audit a wide range of products that compete with yours to get a full picture of the landscape. In UX design, competitive audits are important for a few key reasons. Let's investigate.
Play video starting at :2:4 and follow transcript2:04
First, they help inform your design process. How did your competitors approach designing their products? Knowing what others have done can help you make better design decisions for your own product. Second, competitive audits help you solve usability problems. Is your competitor's website difficult to use? If so, you know what to avoid for your own website. Third, competitive audits can reveal gaps in the market. Are there user needs your competitors do not meet? Your product might be able to address these user needs. Fourth, competitive audits provide reliable evidence. Why is it important to gather evidence? Design ideas are most successful when there's a deep understanding of business needs and market gaps. Competitive audits are a huge part of gathering that information. Knowing all of these things can help you save time, money, and energy.
Play video starting at :3: and follow transcript3:00
I know we all want to be detectives, but who actually conducts an audit? Well, it depends on where you work. A smaller company might have a single UX designer conduct the audit, while a larger company might have an entire team to do the work. Either way, it's important for you to know how to put together a competitive audit, because it's critical to your work as a UX designer. Now you know about competitive audits and their benefits, so you can put your detective cap back on the hook. Coming up, we'll explore some of the limitations of competitive audits. See you there!