
Hi, my name is Vanessa and I am a user experience researcher at Google. Before becoming a researcher, I had a ton of different jobs. More than most people can probably list in their career. I was working at a library then I decided to become a personal trainer. My first kind of stint into tech was essentially becoming an office manager at a start-up. And that was the first time that I was exposed to Engineering and design and product management, but in a very limited manner. I did something very bold and essentially told the CEO of one of the small companies that I worked at, that I don't want to be an office manager forever. And so he ended up telling me, "Fine, let's figure out what you want to do. You can learn more about the business. " and he made me his executive assistant. And so that's how I got to start sitting in on meetings, understanding more about all the different roles within tech. And a year after that decided that UX was going to be kind of the field that I want to be in.
Play video starting at :1:18 and follow transcript1:18
So from there, I essentially looked into research, looked into design, started shadowing some of the designers, was taking design thinking courses, all different types of things just to get more exposure. And once I finally decided that research is the thing that I wanted to do, I got a master's degrees. I was working full time, in school part-time and that was kind of my transition into UX and into research. I always say, "Research is like party planning. You have to just think of everything ahead of time." There is so many different aspects to it in order for both sides to have a good experience, which I think is always supercritical. Like you don't want the participants to be uncomfortable, you don't want the researcher to be uncomfortable. Everything leads up to you understanding people and processes and I think with research, thinking about how to be empathetic, how that metacognition of being able to recognize a situation, talk to any type of person. Like we don't necessarily choose who our customers are sometimes, but we need to be able to communicate with them and understand them. After being a researcher for a while, I decided to apply to Google, and I think that past experience, both in operations as well as in research plus the degree really helped set me up for a success here.