Congratulations on completing this course! Wow, you've come such a long way, and I'm so proud of the progress you've made. Let's recap all that you've learned in this course. You started your journey through this course using research to inform the ideation process and came up with goal statements. Next, you built two types of storyboards and explained how storyboards are used to create wireframes. Then you learned how to draw basic elements, like shapes and lines. Hopefully, this is when you really started feeling like a UX designer. You also briefly explored information architecture before getting creative and creating paper wireframes. After paper wireframes, you left your pen and paper behind to build digital wireframes on a tool called Figma. Then you made the transition from wireframes to prototypes. You started by constructing low-fidelity paper prototypes. Before long, you developed low-fidelity digital prototypes on Figma. Finally, you learned about some common deceptive patterns and how to avoid them in your designs.
Play video starting at :1:10 and follow transcript1:10
Wow, great work! I've really enjoyed guiding you through this course and helping you in your journey to become a UX designer. This is where we part ways, but I can't wait to learn about everything you accomplish in the future. You're going to do big things and I'll be cheering for you. Now, onto the next course, where you'll be led by a new instructor, Jason, a senior UX researcher on the Equity Engineering team, who's ready to help you learn more about the research process. You'll get to build a research plan, conduct a usability study, analyze and synthesize the study results, present your research insights, and iterate on your low-fidelity prototypes. Good luck and have fun!