Welcome back. It's me, Karen. Let's work on merging the insights from empathy maps, personas, user stories, and user journey maps to come up with a focus scope for your designs. To focus the scope of your designs, we'll create a product goal statement, which is one or two sentences that describe a product and its benefits for the user. In other words, the goal statement provides the ideal solution for the design. At this point in the design process, we're transitioning from the problem the user is facing to the solution we're providing as UX designers. So, the problem is defined in the problem statement and the solution is listed in the goal statement. Goal statements cover what the product lets users do, who the action affects, why the action positively affects users, and how the effectiveness of a product is measured. To answer the who, what, why, and how, you should lean on the user research you've already conducted. Just like with many other research tools, there's a formula for creating an effective goal statement. This template says, "Our product will let users perform specific actions which will affect a specific user by an action. We will measure effectiveness by its impact." After we fill in this info, we will have a working goal statement.
Play video starting at :1:33 and follow transcript1:33
Now, the easiest way to find out the who, what, why, and how is to refer back to your problem statement. Let's think back to the problem statement formula we introduced earlier. The user has some specific characteristics and has a specific need for a specific reason. Now, imagine we're designing an app that helps people find and schedule dog walkers. A problem statement we might create would be, Drew is a pet owner in a small town who needs to find and schedule a dog walker because they work the night shift. Before we connect those dots, remember, we are transitioning from the problem that Drew is facing to a solution that meets their needs. With that in mind, let's begin building our goal statement. Here's our goal statement template. We know what our product is, so let's fill that section in with dog walking app. Our goal statements so far is our dog walking app let's use your schedule dog walkers quickly and easily. Now we have to think about the specific actions our users will take, the who. This is where we'll turn to our problem statement. The first part of the problem statement, Drew is a pet owner in a small town, describes the who of our goal statement, pet owners. We'll add that to who the actions affect. Now, we're going to look at how the actions affect the users we've just established. The third part of the problem statement, because they work the night shift describes an insight about why our user needs this product that informs our design. In this case, our dog walker app allows users to choose the most convenient times and dates to have their pets walked. We'll add that to the why area of our goal statement. We're almost there. The last section focuses on how we will measure the effectiveness of our product. This can vary based on project needs and what tools your team has available. We've decided that we will measure effectiveness for this app by analyzing the number of daily and weekly appointments users set. Our goal statement reads: Our dog walking app will let users schedule dog walkers quickly and easily, which will affect users who are pet owners by allowing them to choose the most convenient times and dates to have their pets walked. We will measure effectiveness by analyzing the number of daily and weekly appointments. If you didn't create a problem statement, don't worry. You can also pull the who, what, and why into your goal statement from other parts of your research and ideation process. For example, who can come from the persona. What could come from the user story. Why can come from the empathy map and user journey maps, and how can come from the brainstorming. The how is important because it helps make sure the goal is measurable and realistic. Spend some time considering concrete ways you can evaluate how well the product is doing.
Play video starting at :4:52 and follow transcript4:52
Okay. We've made the transition from the problem the user is facing to the solution we can provide as UX designers. Our solution is outlined in the goal statement. Now it's time to think about what our user experience looks like using the solution. See you there.