
Great work on your portfolio so far. You've accomplished so much already, like setting up your website and learning best practices for writing. In this video, we'll explain how to build a cohesive and consistent presence online. We covered how to apply your personal brand to your portfolio in an earlier video. Your personal brand should come across in your portfolio, on social media, in online UX design communities, and on job search websites. You'll also want to keep handy the worksheets you completed about your personal brand, so you can reference them in the next few videos. So, what does it mean to build your professional presence online? Start with your personal statement, which was part of the branding worksheet you completed. A personal statement is a one- or two-sentence phrase that describes what you do and what you stand for. Think of a personal statement like your own slogan or tagline. You want your personal statement to highlight what makes your work unique. The best personal statements are memorable and catchy. Consider including a version of your personal statement on the About Me page of your portfolio website. It's helpful to repeat words that you use to describe yourself in order to reinforce the key elements of your brand. You might also want to include your personal statement on your social media profiles or your resume. Keep in mind, whatever your personal statement communicates should also be reflected in your work. For example, if you describe yourself as organized, that should be evident in your designs. Or if you're passionate about working in virtual reality, you should include a design for a virtual reality experience. Even if it's not your own design, you can describe why it's inspiring to you. In addition, you probably know that you should be thoughtful about posting pictures of yourself on the internet. Since we're trying to build a cohesive professional presence online, your photo should be consistent across platforms, like your portfolio and LinkedIn profile. For example, using the same photo of yourself everywhere can help recruiters identify you across platforms. And when selecting a photo of yourself to use, you should express your unique style, culture, and interests. Finally, make sure your color scheme, logo, font, and other design elements are consistent across platforms. This includes websites like your portfolio and social media accounts, as well as physical products like your business cards. Of course, there's only so much customization you can do on some of these social media sites, but try to keep the look and feel as consistent as possible whenever you can. Keep in mind that your online presence and personal brand are important in landing a job and growing your career. It's also a chance for you to be creative, so have fun with it. Next, we'll explore how personal branding is useful when creating profiles on social media sites and online communities for UX designers. See you soon.

