Ready to learn even more about design sprints? Me too. From tech to finance to retail, future-forward companies in all kinds of different industries use design sprints to solve complex problems. In other words, sprints are pretty much a game changer. But what makes design sprints beneficial? Why are they so darn popular? Here is what a few seasoned UX designers have pointed out.
Play video starting at ::30 and follow transcript0:30
First, in design sprints, it's all about the user. Sprint participants make sure the design challenge is always focused on the user and their needs. After all, it's the users who ultimately decide if your product is successful, right? Second, sprints value every person in the room: From the office intern to the senior stakeholder, including people from lots of disciplines and experience levels is a key part of the process. Why? Because considering all angles of the problem and the solution means the best ideas will rise to the top. Next, sprints give the core team time to focus solely on a design challenge. Think about it: Five work days devoted entirely to distractionless, gadgetless creative collaboration. Now, that's a recipe for some serious problem-solving. Also, sprints lower the risk of an unsuccessful market debut because the team gets feedback from real users and can make critical adjustments before the product launches. And finally, sprints are versatile because they can be scheduled at any point during your project. When a challenge arises, you've always got the design sprint option in your back pocket. So are you sold on the benefits of a design sprint yet? Awesome. Next, let's focus on how to plan an effective one.