We just discussed how LinkedIn and Twitter are great places to network with recruiters and professionals. There are also online communities specifically for UX designers. Having a presence on one of these sites is a fantastic way to gain exposure and demonstrate your skills in UX design. In this video, we'll talk about some of the most popular UX design communities: Dribbble, Behance, and Medium. You can create accounts on these sites to learn more about UX design in general and to get design inspiration from other professionals. In addition, posting your own designs on these sites is a great way to get feedback on your work from experienced UX designers. To get started, let's dig into Dribbble.
Play video starting at ::49 and follow transcript0:49
Dribbble - that's three "B"s - is a community of designers who want to share their work, ask for feedback, get inspiration, and find jobs. The designs that people share on Dribbble are usually not full case studies like what's in your portfolio. Instead, they are small snapshots of work that highlight a particular skill or interest like branding, product design, or typography.
Play video starting at :1:16 and follow transcript1:16
If there's a specific design you like, you can follow that designer. It's also helpful to check out designers with the most followers in order to understand popular kinds of designs and get ideas about how to present yourself effectively. Similarly, you can follow teams on Dribbble. These might include companies like Google or independent design groups that have their own pages.
Play video starting at :1:42 and follow transcript1:42
Plus, liking and commenting on projects is a great way to start conversations with other designers and make connections in the UX design community.
Play video starting at :1:52 and follow transcript1:52
Finally, Dribbble is a great community to join if you're looking for a job. Dribbble has a robust job search forum, including a job board and a freelance marketplace. Employers pay to list their jobs and internships in this forum, so the posted positions are legitimate opportunities.
Play video starting at :2:12 and follow transcript2:12
In addition, recruiters look for designers on Dribbble, so being an active member is another way to demonstrate your skills and get hired.
Play video starting at :2:21 and follow transcript2:21
A second popular community for UX designers is Behance.
Play video starting at :2:26 and follow transcript2:26
Many features on Behance are similar to Dribbble. For example, you can discover designs from around the world and follow specific designers. Behance also has a job board that features full time jobs, freelance roles, and internships. You can narrow your search on the job board down to very specific fields. In addition, designers frequently live stream from Behance to demonstrate their skills in real time. Finally, a third online community for UX designers is Medium. You might be familiar with Medium already. It's a popular blogging platform featuring articles on all kinds of topics. There's a vibrant UX design community on Medium, specifically at UX Collective, a subset of the website. Medium is pretty different from Dribbble and Behance. For example, on Medium your designs are not the main attraction. Instead, the Medium community focuses on long-form writing about UX design, sometimes including visuals. So start reading. There are lots of articles on Medium from leaders in UX design, including Googlers. Medium is a great place to discover the processes of top designers and learn about industry trends. We even have a Google design collection. Keep in mind that articles on blogging sites like Medium should be considered opinion pieces, not objective research. That said, you can still learn a lot from the resources on Medium, like tips for using a specific design software or how to build equity and accessibility into your work. You can communicate with other designers by responding to articles in the comment section and giving claps, which are basically Medium's like button. You can also follow designers who inspire you and sign up for their newsletters. It's a great way to expand your network. You can even publish your own Medium post. Medium offers plenty of resources to help you get started. Polish your story, and find your audience. You can find more details on how to create a profile on each of these platforms in the course readings. Get creative, and don't be afraid to start posting your design ideas, requesting feedback, and becoming an active member of online UX design communities. You'll do great. Next, we're going to explain how recruiters and interviewers might check out your online presence. See you there.