All right, so now we know what it means to ideate. But why is coming up with lots of ideas so important? That's what we'll answer in this video. To get our brain pumping, let's ideate solutions for this problem: Olivia is a parent who needs a way to ride her bike with her two-year-old, Luca, because he can't ride his own bike. There are lots of solutions to this problem that exists already. But let's imagine it's a new product. To solve for this problem you could design a seat behind the adult rider; A seat in front of the adult rider; A bicycle built for two, requiring the child to pedal with the adult; A mini bike attachment for the child to ride behind to the adult; A basket on the handlebars for the child to sit in; A sidecar, like you might find on a motorcycle; A seat that attaches to the adult's helmet; or A covered trailer to pull behind the bike. Are some of these ideas ridiculous? Absolutely. But when you're ideating, you want to push past the obvious ideas to get to the innovative ones.
Play video starting at :1:1 and follow transcript1:01
Remember: Ideation is focused on coming up with a lot of ideas. Why? For one, the list of your ideas will be narrowed down when you have to think about constraints, like budget and timelines. For example, your biggest idea might not be possible because of your team's budget constraints. You want to start with a long list of potential ideas, so that when constraints are introduced, you still have solutions that could work. In addition, we need to come up with ideas that are equitable. The first idea you come up with might be perfect for you as a user, but when we're designing with equity in mind, we want to make sure that the design works for everyone who will use the product. There are a lot of solutions to every problem, but we want to find the one that works best for your users, not you. Lastly, keep in mind that you might not be the one to decide which idea is the best solution. Instead, let users test a bunch of your ideas and they might find the right answer. So, now that you understand why exploring lots of ideas is so beneficial, we can start the ideation process. Coming up, We'll show you how to evaluate ideas based on business needs.