Welcome back. We now know how to come up with lots of ideas and evaluate those ideas. As you ideate, it's important to think about the business you're designing for. This includes the business's voice, tone, and budget. That's what we'll focus on in this video: understanding the business needs behind a design.
Play video starting at ::22 and follow transcript0:22
UX designers often work closely with marketing and branding teams. That's because branding has a big effect on how users experience a product. Two major components of branding are voice and the tone. Even though a brand isn't a human being, it still has a personality. Users don't want to communicate with a brand that uses robotic sounding language. Instead, users want to interact with the brand whose voice and tone sounds human and engaging. Here's the thing: Voice and tone have a huge impact on a user's experience with a product.
Play video starting at ::57 and follow transcript0:57
For example, imagine you place an order online for shoes and receive a confirmation email that says, "Great choice. Your purchase should be landing on your doorstep in the next five days. Let us know how much you love it." When you order another pair of shoes from a different company, the confirmation says, "Order shipped. Estimated arrival: 5-7 business days." The first email feels enthusiastic and conversational, while the second email feels cold and detached. Small changes in language communicate a brand's voice and tone and help improve the user experience. As we continue through this program, you will see how design can help facilitate a conversation between a business and its users. For example, Apple and Google might each have a product that focuses on similar user needs, but the approach, tone, and branding for that product can be really different. In addition, we need to keep in mind the fundamentals of driving sales when designing. For example, imagine you are designing an e-commerce site. You want to make it easy to find the Checkout button. This improves the user experience and drives sales, so your design benefits both the customer and the business: a win-win.
Play video starting at :2:12 and follow transcript2:12
Finally, it's helpful to research your brand's competitors as part of the design exploration. Knowing the successes and failures of your competition can help influence your design decisions. That might involve asking questions like, how do your competitors approach the checkout cart? Or, what does your competitor's sign-up process look like? To recap, we need to consider both the business needs and the user's needs when designing. Next, we'll investigate our competitors, so get your detective gear ready.