
As we mentioned at the beginning of the program, our goal is for you to learn the skills you need to get a job as an entry-level UX designer. But how do you demonstrate those skills during the job application process? That's where portfolios come in. In this video, you'll learn what a portfolio is and why UX designers use them. A portfolio is a collection of work that you've created that shows your skills in a certain area, like painting, photography, or UX design. UX design is a creative field, so it's important to show hiring managers examples of your work and demonstrate the skills you can bring to the job. In the past, portfolios were usually a physical collection of work like a giant briefcase full of drawings. But in today's world, it's more likely that your portfolio will be on a website, which is much easier to update and share. Next, you'll build your own website to showcase your future portfolio. You don't need to know how to write code or have any work to include yet. As you build your own projects throughout this program, you'll add them to this new portfolio. Sound fun? It is. Creating a showcase of your work and skills is a great way to start feeling like a part of the UX design community. Keep in mind that the design of the website itself is also important. Having a well-designed website is another way to demonstrate that you understand the principles of UX design. You wouldn't want your website to have a bad user experience when you're applying for a job in UX. As you design the website, you want your portfolio to tell a story and grab the user's attention. This will help you stand out. After all, the user might be a recruiter or a client interested in offering you a job. Next up, you'll meet entry-level UX designers, explore real-world portfolios, and learn how those portfolios help lead to jobs in UX design. Ready? Let's get started.