
Hi there. Welcome to the next course. I'm Emily, a UX researcher at Google, and I'll be your instructor. Before we get started, how about a quick recap of what we've covered so far?
Play video starting at ::13 and follow transcript0:13
We started with the basics. You learned why user experience is so important in your role as an entry-level UX designer. Then you were introduced to common tools, frameworks, and platforms used in UX design, and we walked through the steps of a design sprint.
Play video starting at ::30 and follow transcript0:30
Before too long, you were thinking like a designer and started developing your portfolio, personal brand, and online profiles. Everything you've learned so far has given you a solid foundation that we'll continue to build upon. Over the next several videos, you'll learn how empathy is key to creating phenomenal experiences for our users. Every activity you do will bring you closer to empathizing with your potential user. You'll also learn how designers predict what a user or group of users might think as they interact with your product. And more importantly, you'll be able to anticipate how users might feel about the experience.
Play video starting at :1:11 and follow transcript1:11
Next, you'll bring together everything you know about your potential user to define your problem statement. Then we'll give you tools to ideate solutions to address user problems. Before we dive deeper into what empathy is and how it's applied in UX design, you might want to know a little bit more about me. I've been working in UX research for more than 10 years. Right now, I work on the Google Assistant, where I help families communicate and coordinate so they can focus on what really matters: being together. I've always been interested in understanding how people, and kids in particular, learn.
Play video starting at :1:47 and follow transcript1:47
I care about bringing user perspectives into the product development life cycle, and being a UX researcher lets me do just that. I'm so excited to share my passion for creating great user experiences with you. Let's get to it! Coming up, we'll learn how to empathize with users, build an empathy map, understand user pain points, explore personas, write user stories, identify happy paths and edge cases, discover the benefits of user journey maps, write problem statements and hypothesis statements. And we'll consider how accessibility fits into all of this. So let's get started!