Guess what? You've reached the finish line! You should feel great about that. Let's look back on everything you've accomplished in this course. You learned the basics of UX research, and where it brings value within the design thinking process. You learned what it means to empathize with users, and why it's important to do so before you start designing. You also explored personas, wrote a user story, identified happy paths and edge cases, and discovered the benefits of user journey maps. Next, you defined the user problem, by creating problem statements and hypothesis statements. Finally, you started to ideate through the use of competitive audits and brainstorming exercises, like "How Might We" and Crazy Eights. Plus, you continued working on your career growth by building your portfolio and updating your website with your latest designs.
Play video starting at ::55 and follow transcript0:55
We'll keep moving toward a complete picture of the user journey in the next course, where we'll dive even deeper into the research portion of the design process. Knowing how to empathize, define, and ideate are foundational skills in UX research and in design. You now have everything you need to keep building on that knowledge going forward. Even more than the technical skills you've gained, you've shown your determination to succeed and your desire to help others, two things that are super important in the UX design industry and will take you a long way in life, too. I'm really proud of everything you've done so far. You've come a long way. It's been so wonderful being your instructor for this course, and I can't wait to see what you do in the future. Good luck!