0:00
Hey there. Let's review where we're at in the UX design process. You've learned how to empathize with users, define user needs and problem statements, and come up with ideas for design solutions. You've also created a wireframe and made your way into the prototype phase. Now you're going to learn how to conduct research to test your prototype. Once you have your research findings, you'll use the insights to iterate on and improve your low-fidelity designs. By the end of this course, you'll know how to plan a research study, conduct research with a usability study, analyze and synthesize research results, share and promote research insights, and modify designs based on research insights. But before we get started, let me tell you a bit about myself. My name is Jason, and I'm a UX researcher and UX manager at Google. During my career here, I've worked on products like Google Chrome. I'm currently leading a team called Equity Engineering. Our team practices equity-focused design, and we work to make sure that Google's products, systems, and processes are fair and equitable for both Googlers and our users. I advocate for folks that are underrepresented and for groups that have been historically excluded from design. Focusing on equity in your design can be a powerful tool to help you effectively meet the needs of your users.
Play video starting at :1:21 and follow transcript1:21
Early in my career, I held many different jobs that were not in UX design. My journey into UX design has not been the most straightforward, but it has been fulfilling. Your career journey will be a unique one as well. I'm excited to guide you through your next course in UX design, which is all about conducting research and testing prototypes. To get started, we'll go through the four steps in a UX research study. Then we'll deep dive into the first step: planning a study, which has seven elements. Ready to get started? Let's do it!