Welcome back. In this video, we'll focus on storyboarding, a tool for ideation that helps you outline an ideal flow for your design. You'll have an opportunity to sketch a storyboard on a piece of paper soon. For now, let's start with a definition. In UX, a storyboard is a series of panels or frames that visually describe and explore a user's experience with a product. Keep in mind, we've made the transition from the problem the user is facing to coming up with ideas for solutions we can provide as UX designers. Think about storyboarding as a tool to visualize potential solutions to problems the user is facing. You might have heard the term storyboarding used in reference to movies or commercials. In those cases, a storyboard gets divided into a set of panels, and each panel tells a piece of the overall story.
Play video starting at :1:1 and follow transcript1:01
Well, in UX design it's similar. Storyboarding is a tool for making a strong visual connection between the insights you uncovered during research and the flow of experience. Using storyboards to sketch an idea helps you work through the flow of the experience. It can also act as a visual aid to explain your ideas to stakeholders, because they can visualize how the product you're designing will be used. A real product might have many screens, but your storyboard should focus on just the most important parts of the user's experience with a product, and as the name suggests, there's a story that should be told through the panels of a storyboard. The four key elements of a storyboard are the character, the scene, the plot, and the narrative.
Play video starting at :1:51 and follow transcript1:51
The first element, character, is the user in your story. The next element, the scene, helps us imagine the user's environment. The plot describes the benefit or solution of the design. Finally, the narrative describes the user's need or problem and how the design will solve the problem. Now, let's take a look at the template that's often used to sketch a storyboard. The scenario is a short sentence that helps us understand the user and their problem we're solving. The visuals guide us through the user's experience with the app or service. This is where you'll actually sketch. And the captions combine the visuals and scenario by describing how the user interacts with the product. Basically, it's the text that describes each frame of the story. Here's a tip: The captions are useful for interactions that may be difficult to sketch out. Let's check out an example of how to take a problem statement and turn it into a six panel storyboard using the template we just reviewed. Let's revisit a problem statement from course 2. Amal is an athlete who needs a way to sign up for workout classes, because the class he wants to participate in fills up fast. Our first step is to turn this problem statement into a goal statement. Our goal statement could be: Help users who are athletes sign up for workout classes early and quickly. Now it's time to storyboard. To save time, I've already built out a six panel storyboard for this example. Let's walk through it together.
Play video starting at :3:40 and follow transcript3:40
In the first panel, in the top left of the page, Amal is at the gym and is frustrated because he can't get a spot in today's workout class. In the second panel, Amal is sitting on his couch and opens an app on his phone. Next, in the panel on the top right of the page, I zoom in on the phone and show Amal looking at a calendar and selecting the date he wants to schedule a workout class on. In the fourth panel on the bottom left of the page, Amal selects a workout class. The fifth panel shows Amal on a confirmation screen and tapping a button to confirm his class. In the final panel, I sketched Amal smiling as he attends his workout class. Now you know the basics of storyboards. Next, we'll explore two types of storyboards and when to use each type. See you there!