Here's some exciting news: You now know how to prepare for and execute a design sprint. There's just one last thing to do -- the sprint retrospective. So let's check out what a sprint retrospective is, how it's conducted, and why it's important. We've all experienced seeing someone make the same mistake over and over again. Chances are, we've sometimes even been that person. What if there was a way to stop making mistakes for good? Well, that's exactly what retrospectives do. The retrospective is a collaborative critique of the team's design sprint. We usually do retrospective meetings immediately following the sprint so that everyone's thoughts are fresh. Retrospective meetings don't have any particular agenda. The goal is to make sure everyone who took part in the sprint has a chance to give feedback. The two key questions we aim to answer in the meeting are: "What went well?" and "What can be improved?" The person who led the sprint will guide the conversation, and someone will take notes so that the team can use the feedback to make the next sprint even more productive. Retrospectives are super useful. They can help you to work better as a team, improve how you communicate with clients, and even point out areas where you can grow as an individual. Retrospectives are all about empowering, not shaming. If something didn't go well, this is your chance to make sure you have the resources and the tools to do better next time. One of the most effective retrospectives I took part in was one where people actually felt comfortable contributing, and we focused on continuous improvement. Speaking of retrospectives, let's recap what we learned. We now know what a design sprint is, what's involved in each design sprint phase, and how to plan a design sprint. We highlighted where you, as an entry-level UX designer, fit into the design sprint process,
Play video starting at :2:5 and follow transcript2:05
and we learned about the importance of sprint retrospectives. Next up, we'll focus on how to build a professional presence, but first, we've got your next assessment. You've got this and if you need any refreshers, you can always review. Good luck.