
I'm Lisa, I'm a visual designer at Google. A visual designer at Google is a user experience designer that really focuses in on the creative expression of a user experience. When I decided I wanted to get into user experience design, I had no experience. I didn't have a real first job yet. I had a very traditional graphic design and branding portfolio. I had new projects from doing an internship for nine months that I'd created. But then I decided that I wanted to go into UX and I needed to recreate that portfolio, having no work experience in UX, to still be a user experience portfolio. When I was just applying to user experience jobs, I knew I wanted to be a visual designer. Even though at heart I was still unsure if I wanted to call myself that, I knew it was important to identify myself like that strategically in the portfolio, so I said that I was a visual designer. The actual portfolio in itself, I had to completely redo the layout. I don't need to start from scratch, I don't need to panic, everything is there. I just need to reroute the way that I am storytelling and bringing some of these elements to life, so it does feel more like a user experience project.
Play video starting at :1:17 and follow transcript1:17
I really focused in on the storytelling and the thinking like user experience designer. It was interesting because when I got to Google, I felt, okay, I can think like this. I just now need to catch up on the day-to-day, the tools, the software, the things that most people know going in, that somehow I faked it till I made it. The funny part about that is my team didn't seem to care that I didn't know any of that. They were just happy that I was curious, that I was hungry to learn, that I was anxious to get started on a project. What really defined how I got into the job was a curiosity to learn, and to grow, and to project myself as a ambitious visual designer.