So far, we've explored the different types of UX designers. Over the course of this program, you'll become much more familiar with the most important tasks that UX designers do. You might even be drawn to a particular path or specialty. To get started, let's identify some typical responsibilities of entry-level UX designers: Researching, wireframing, prototyping, creating information architecture, and communicating effectively. Entry-level UX designers start their careers by doing a lot of tasks to learn the basics.
Play video starting at ::36 and follow transcript0:36
One of those tasks might be research. UX designers use research to understand audiences and learn about their backgrounds; demographics, like age and location; motivations; pain points; emotions; and life goals. There's a lot to learn about users and their preferences, and UX designers want to discover as much as they can in order to inform their product's design. An entry-level designer also creates wireframes. A wireframe is an outline or a sketch of a product or a screen. It helps the designer figure out how a page is arranged, where each piece of a product fits in with the others, and how users will likely interact with the product. Wireframing is one of the first steps designers take when building a new product or feature. It's done after or at the same time as the research. We can wireframe by drawing on paper or digitally on a computer. Here are some examples of wireframes I've done. This is for a webpage on Google's transparency report. Notice that they're just basic drawings? But you can tell what goes where. These wireframes were designed to demonstrate the basic structure of the page to gain support from key stakeholders, people with a business interest in the final product.
Play video starting at :1:53 and follow transcript1:53
A UX designer will also create prototypes. A prototype is an early model of a product that demonstrates functionality, like a wireframe, but a lot more advanced. While a wireframe gives you a general idea of where things go and how the product will function, a prototype illustrates a progression from one screen to the next. We can draw our prototypes on paper, create a physical prototype, or build a digital prototype. Here's a prototype for Google's transparency report that I created, and here's the final version.
Play video starting at :2:30 and follow transcript2:30
The purpose of wireframes and prototypes is to figure out the best design for a product inexpensively and quickly. Another responsibility of an entry-level UX designer might include creating the information architecture, which is the framework of a website, or how it's organized, categorized, and structured. For example, when you click the File menu on a word processing application like Google Docs, you expect certain options, like New or Print, to appear in the dropdown menu. Or when you click on a company's homepage, you expect to find a link to an About page. That structure is the website's information architecture.
Play video starting at :3:14 and follow transcript3:14
Finally, an entry-level UX design job, like many jobs, also requires a lot of communication, like meetings with colleagues, writing emails, creating proposals, or pitching clients. In short, entry-level UX designers should know how to research, wireframe, prototype, create information architecture, and communicate effectively. Your exact responsibilities will vary depending on where you work and how specialized you need to be for your particular job. Up next, you'll learn about being a generalist or a specialist and what that means for your career options. Intrigued? Let's go.