So far you've learned about common responsibilities of UX designers and the types of roles that UX designers might have. But like many people, UX designers don't work alone; they work on cross-functional teams that might include other designers, engineers, researchers, product leads, or program managers. In this video we'll discuss how these cross-functional teams work together to build a product.
Play video starting at ::29 and follow transcript0:29
Imagine you're working on an app for ordering food. You and your team want to build a new feature that shows users restaurants that offer allergen-free meals. The product lead decides the scope of the project, the UX researcher tries to understand user trust, like whether users will trust the information about allergens or trust the app itself. The interaction designer figures out the flow for ordering, like how to include allergen-free foods in the search filter. The visual designer thinks about how to make it easy for users to find allergen-free foods in the product. These UX designers create wireframes and prototypes to show the experience that users will have in the app.
Play video starting at :1:13 and follow transcript1:13
The engineers bring these wireframes and prototypes to life and create ways for restaurants to each add information about their allergen-free options. As you might have noticed, it's important for UX designers to collaborate with engineers, because engineers build the final product. This collaboration happens throughout the entire process.
Play video starting at :1:33 and follow transcript1:33
There are multiple opportunities for UX designers and engineers to provide feedback to each other to make their changes together. There are a lot of moving parts here. This is where the program manager comes in to ensure clear and timely communication across the team, so the process of building useful apps moves smoothly from start to finish. Every team and team member has a different task to complete, but ultimately they all have the same goal: To build a product that's usable, useful, equitable, and enjoyable for users and businesses. Coming up, we'll discuss the types of companies UX designers work at. I think you'll be pleasantly surprised by how many options you have.